well here we go from the from the Oval
Office to the bushes in the Rose Garden
our first guest has seen it all he
survived one of the worst jobs ever and
he's free at last to speak about it from
our nation's capitol please say hello to
former White House press secretary Sean
Spicer
[Applause]
it's very good to have you here thank
you for coming I know I was gonna get
that kind of applause I'm glad I left
earlier is it weird is it weird for you
to get applause when you walk out onto a
stage house usually you're looking at
all these grim faced reporters
yeah especially in California
have you been harassed no no it's been
unbelievably Pleasant since for last
month people have been very very
supportive and and that's I think very
helpful to know people will come on said
thank you for your service I didn't vote
for the president I'm not a Republican
but you know I appreciate you serve in
the country and I think that gets back
to what this is should always be about
is that we have elections they get
decided and then people with both
parties should be able to serve this are
you distancing yourself from the
president right now absolutely well you
know this is obviously a hard job and I
mean and it turned out to be kind of
funny in a lot of ways was it for you
[Laughter]
[Applause]
let's go back to the beginning how did
you get the job of press secretary in
the first place so I had been at the
Republican National Committee for about
six years
you know our job is to sync up with the
nominee after the Indiana primary Trump
became the desert of the apparent
nominee went into the convention they
ran a rather unconventional campaign and
so there was a lot of need for
communications staff and and I was asked
to go up and start helping out on a more
full time basis help up and down the
ticket so I started basically commuting
to New York the last week of August and
spent the last three and a half months
getting to know the president you know
traveling with him doing the events and
you know and then we won and I said
you're the guy and then you know I got a
phone call from the president he said
you know let's let's do this I I want
you to do the job and and I thanked him
profusely and and off we went
and so right off the bat your first ever
press conference you get in there and
it's the day after the inauguration
right yes and you are charged with the
job of going in front of the press and
saying that the inauguration crowd was
the biggest crowd I
ever biggest audience the the President
himself if it was up to you would this
even have been a topic you know if it
was up to me I would have probably
weren't a different suit uh-huh I
thought I was going in on a Saturday
morning to set my office up get the
computer make sure the emails went out
you know and and and somebody told you
you need to go out there and say the
president wanted to make sure that the
record got set straight and why is he so
concerned with size and have you ever
seen the president naked
I have not do you have no known okay
what but look I said it at the time and
I believe it that I think in all
seriousness that the again whether or
not you voted for or not the president
won the election he was faced a lot of
headwinds and and I think there was a
faction of people out there that didn't
want to give him the credit that he
rightly deserved and I think he takes a
lot of that sometimes personally some of
us who worked very hard to to get him
elected felt as though a lot of folks in
the media in particular constantly
sought to undermine the validity of that
election and and so you have to
understand it sometimes from that
perspective but the validity of the
election compared to looking at photos
of the crowd at an inauguration I mean
they're like ones this and one is this
did you try to talk him out of I think
we you know there's a lot of us that
wanted to be focused on on his agenda
what he spoke about his inaugural
address so you know look but he's
president he made it a so you have to go
along even though you you if even if you
know what I'm as you say whether it was
or not but even if you know the crowd
wasn't bigger you have to go as press
secretary you have to say that it was
look your job as press secretary is to
represent the president's voice and to
make sure that you are articulating what
he believes his vision is on policy on
issues of in other areas that he wants
to articulate whether or not you agree
or not isn't your job your job to give
him advice and and which is what we
would do on a variety of issues all the
time he would always listen to that
advice
but ultimately he's the president he
would say I agree with you sometimes or
that's a good point incorporated or
sometimes he would say depending on the
issue look III know what I believe and
this is what I think the right thing to
do is and then you have to march out
there and go yeah he had a bigger crowd
everybody he's the president
yeah he decides I understand that's
that's what you signed up to do so a lot
of these guys these members of the press
were your friends right yeah I think
word yeah word
so this is Jonathan Karl from ABC News
who was a friend of yours I've known
Jonathan for a long time okay all right
so here's how its kind of got it going
is it your intention to always tell the
truth from that podium and we you
pledged never to knowingly say something
that is not it is it's an honor to do
this and yes I believe that we have to
be honest with the American people I
think sometimes we can disagree with the
facts
can we though disagree with the facts
well I look I think the point is is that
you can look at a set of an argument or
a set of facts and come out with one
opinion someone else can say I well the
facts are the same here I come out with
a different conclusion I say and so I
mean that's what that's what makes our
country great is that you know there's
there's ways that you can look at
economic models and say you know we
believe that growth rates will be higher
or lower and that's like if I were to
say to you I'm sitting on a horse right
now then you're well you'd say Yeah
right exactly
that's it
so I want to go ask about Jonathan there
when he's asking you this question are
you like you son of a I've known
you for 20 years there were a couple
other words cable you know yeah there's
a there's times when you're thinking
yourself you know montano policy or a
particular instance but to get up there
in question
you know I'm day one my integrity I
think was not something that I
anticipated yeah well I'm sure although
when you brought that crowd size thing
out it like you opened this terrible
Pandora's box do you think that's what
got you off to like a kind of a bad
start with the press corps III don't
think it was it was probably the the
that's a start Donald did the president
watch all of your press conferences I
don't think not everyone if not every
one of them but would he be waiting for
you afterwards there were some days when
you know he would at some point either
see clips or watch it depending on the
day and what what meetings were
happening and what time the briefing was
and and so a lot of times he would
provide feedback based on again my job
is to articulate his position yeah right
and so he would say hey I don't you know
I thought that was really good how you
articulated this I think I would have
phrased this differently and really he's
that constructive in the way he put
sometimes depends on the issue but it
depended on the issue and again it's
it's my job yeah to speak on his behalf
yeah they're not speaking in the way
that he wants obviously he wanted to
make sure that he corrected them
Donald Trump comes out and undermines
what they were saying for example Sean
Spicer when he said this is not a Muslim
ban so when the president would tweet
did you have an alert on your phone
yes did he did he ever run a tweet by
you before tweeting it I don't maybe
once or twice did you ask him to to run
by yeah no you didn't did you did it
ever like like wake you up in the middle
of the night anything I think there were
times when you were you might have
wanted to go to bed and said okay this
is gonna be a little longer night or you
would get up and you know the first
thing but that's that was the you know
one of the president's most effective
tools on the campaign trail that it
continues to utilize it so you would you
were constantly kept on your toes and
and I will tell you the hit there is no
one that's working harder than him when
it comes to the hours of the day he's up
late he's up early and that as a staffer
you know you usually are trying to get
ahead of your boss and and you've never
tried just accidentally dropping his
phone in the toilet I did not he they're
not see you should have called me I
could have helped you with this job
you've been a lot of I know this
idea of fake news yeah you know again we
talked about your lazy of a
long-standing relationship with members
of the press do you agree that the vast
majority of I mean that the vast
majority the majority of journalists are
decent people who are looking to get the
truth and to write the truth I think
probably the majority yeah there are a
lot that have now you know I always like
to say that they're trying they'd rather
be first and right and I think that's
unfortunate because it gives a bad name
to those who who actually do take the
time to do it writers a lot of that
people want to just get right and they
were and it's also there's a line
between an
and this is where I think a lot of
journalists have cross the line which is
they go on Twitter or another social
media and and start to perpetuate myths
or make back and forth and say well
that's not a story a minute journalist
go on what again where I what I found
frustrating was that there were a lot of
times when they were literally creating
a story out of whole cloth that didn't
exist and I think that that's difficult
because if you're a viewer or a reader
and you see something you're trusting
these individuals to give you what is is
the best you know the whole truth as
opposed to a one-sided way that's gonna
promote you know a view or a click but
the president it seems that what he
calls fake news is really anything that
criticizes him and then he'll give
validity to wacky news sources sometimes
because they're complementary and do you
think that is a dangerous thing to
delegitimize the press for America I
think it's a two-way street and and when
these guys in the press corps go after
the president in ways that are only
coming and again it's it's it's sort of
like what your mom's the two wrongs
don't make a right and so I think
sometimes when the press corps attacks
the president undermines him or calls
into question his credibility from the
outset I think it creates a very poor
relationship overall and I think that
there is some area that could deserve a
reset and hopefully I think Sara's done
a phenomenal job of really trying to
take the tone down and get back so when
you say there were two wrongs you mean
Donald Trump the present times Roy no I
didn't I didn't say that but what
what I'm sorry you don't work there
anymore didn't have to worry about him
we can protect you here I got the best
security guy in the world I I believe
that look I that a free press is is
paramount to a democracy and it's what
makes our country great that we do have
the ability like so many places on earth
don't have that ability to speak freely
to have a free press but it is an
awesome responsibility for those members
of the press corps to have and they need
to understand that when they cross the
line or were no member of the press
corps crosses the line that they have a
responsibility to help hold that in and
I've never seen a group of individuals
who protect themselves like the press
corps does especially the White House
press corps they've never once during my
tenure and at least in my recollection
ever called out someone who is who has
crossed the line on the story and I
think it undermines is that I rarely
have seen any you know they always have
an excuse for why that story you know we
were gonna correct it and we checked
with the sources and now and it's never
there's never an admission of guilt
once in a while you'll see the little
correction that says you know we erred
in it you know putting the period here
or there but I do believe that that the
healthier press corps that we have the
better democracy that we have lumping
everyone together though as fake news
just seems terrible to me I mean in a
way but here at Catholic and I'm a
Catholic as well I am offended when
people lump all priests together as
child abusers I find that to be unfair
to those who aren't I agree but but as
someone who's as a conservative and a
Republican I spent 25 years in
Washington DC being told conservatives
want this Republicans are against this
so I agree it but it's the press corps
that also lumps all of us into the same
bucket as well and says conservatives
don't care about this the Republicans
are racist those are if those statements
are not right then it's not right so
again it's it's that whole idea of two
wrongs don't make a right the press
player wants to attack Republicans
attack conservatives undermine our our
attempt to have a constructive dialogue
and I think it's a two-way street so if
we don't want to lump every journalist
into the same thing then don't lump
every Republican and every conservative
into the same box
okay I know think everyone is I mean
you've got fox news is certainly not
doing that and you consider them to be
part of the press I mean it's it's it
really is I mean it seems almost like a
childish way to interact with with each
other as tonight and that's why I'm
saying I think that there's there's a
time that we can start taking down the
temperature and getting back to a more
constructive and civil dial you maybe
when Mike Pence takes over all right and
especially you know that one of the
things that makes us again such a great
country is that we have this ability to
have the discourse that we have but I
think that what we want to do is to
continue to be that place in the world
that people look to and admire and the
values and the principles that we have
begin today by apologizing on behalf of
you to me you have treated me these last
two weeks and that apology is not
accepted because I'm not here to be your
buddy I'm here to swallow a gun and I'm
here to take Nate
[Applause]
you thought that was funny all right I
was that was kind of like did the
president he didn't think that was funny
III don't think particularly annoyed by
the fact that a woman was playing you I
really didn't ask a ton of question yeah
so that may have been a contributing
situation that is like they're making
fun of me and you're mad at me for it
and she wins an Emmy this is a we posted
this on Twitter there's us together what
year was this that was 9 2007 I think I
was filling in for Regis with Kelly
outside and it was Fleet Week and there
you are in your uniform that's that's
pretty crazy yeah I don't know what I'm
looking at there but I apologize for
that
do you um this Anthony scaramouche II
character so we know you didn't get
along with the guy obvious actually
that's not true I hate to so I've known
Anthony from the campaign he had done a
lot of surrogate workforce appearing on
different abolition networks supporting
the president and the campaign so we had
known each other through through the
campaign but when he was hired that's
when you said yeah but again it wasn't
personal it wasn't that I have anything
against Anthony oh I didn't feel
Anthony's been a very successful in
business he's made a ton of money but I
just didn't feel as though he had the
qualifications or the background to work
in the Communications Office I said and
my view is that if I'm going to have to
partner with somebody that I don't
believe had the skillset to execute the
job then it was incumbent upon me to
either step aside or make my you know
make my voice note I did I told the
president I I thought it was an opera if
he wanted a clean slate that he wanted a
change that I respected that but it was
in his best interest to have me step
aside completely and let Anthony move
forward when that New Yorker article
came out where he said all those crazy
things and apparently didn't seem to
realize he was on the record where were
you when you read that I don't I I was
cause in my office did somebody give you
a heads up started I think I started to
read some stuff on Twitter that there
was a story coming out and and were you
cackling like a maniac when you read
that look I don't like to as you meant I
don't think it's right to relish in
somebody else's can you know problems
and so I I just as a person I don't
think that's right but again I think it
proved my point
and and that to do this job is one in
which you have to have the proper
background I think you are I imagine you
high-fiving everyone there this is a
shot from your farewell party yeah and I
have to say I've never seen anyone
happier than you are the president said
to me right before I left he said my
gosh you look 10 years younger do you
think Donald Trump wants to be President
absolutely you do really yeah listen I I
think you can disagree but I will tell
you I've got I got to know him fairly
well he's a good man that really cares
about this country and so you may not
always agree with his policies but I'd
know his hearts in the right price he
truly cares about this country he wants
to give back you are doing public
speaking now and are you enjoying doing
that it's it's yes is there a queue a
portion or you don't at that yeah
there's yes there's been a Q&A there has
been a cute little nicer it's a nicer
Q&A yeah and will you write a tell-all
book we're not every detail you will not
know why because I don't think that's
the right thing to do I think if you
someone entrust you to bring you into
the inner circle of something that it is
it would be an act of betrayal now I
think I've learned a lot from my
experience that it was an amazing honor
to serve in this position and I would
like to maybe share some of the
experiences with folks yes share some of
the lessons learned some of the insight
will write to tell some book I will type
were right I tell book pictures but I I
wouldn't I don't think it would be the
right thing to do but I think there's
something there there's I had a really
interesting pieces of history that I had
the unbelievable honor and privilege to
be part of and I'd love to maybe share
that with the American people who have
Trump by the balls right now I mean if
you were
that book you if you hold on to writing
that book you could literally run this
country from some kind of shadow
organization at your house I appreciate
I appreciate that well I thank you for
being here I really do appreciate it
it's great to me I am Jimmy Kimmel if
you enjoyed the video hit subscribe and
if you don't click Subscribe
this invisible hamster will die